3Com Corporation
Network Drivers Installation Notes

    WINDOWS FOR WORKGROUPS v3.11 AND NOVELL NETWARE


This document describes how to configure the 3C589 card for
use with Windows for Workgroups v3.11 and Novell NetWare.

NOTE: The following instructions assume that you have not
      installed any other network adapter in the machine. If you
      have been using a network connection on your computer,
      some of the following instructions may not apply or may
      produce different results. Refer to your MIS department
      or system manager for further instructions.

Before installing the network driver, you should know about the
following:

      -The Frame type used in the network (802.2 is the
       default).
      -The name of your Novell file server.

Also, for a successful installation, you will need:

      - Novell NetWare VLM Client disks for DOS and Windows 
      - 3C589 LAN card and the accompanying EtherDisk
        diskette
     
Installation Instructions:

1.  Boot the system in DOS. If the system starts up in windows,
    close Windows and exit to DOS.

2.  Place the Novell VLM client disk #1 in the floppy drive and
    type:

        a:install <enter>

3.  This opens the NetWare Client Installation window. Use the
    arrow keys to move between fields. Verify that the
    information on each line is correct.

4.  In the field asking you to select the driver for your network
    card, press Enter to see the list of support drivers. At the
    bottom of the list, select OTHER DRIVERS and press <ENTER>.

5.  At the prompt for a driver disk, put the EtherDisk in your
    floppy drive, and press Enter. Select 3Com EtherLink III
    LAN PC Card Adapter v1.1 and press Enter.

6.  Select the frame type by pressing Enter and choosing the
    appropriate type from the list. After your selection is made,
    press Enter again. You will not need to select an "I/O
    Base", as the default is appropriate for our drivers. Press
   <F10> to return to the main installation screen.

7.  To install the driver, select line 6 from this screen and
    press <ENTER>. During the installation process, you 
    will be asked for specific floppy diskettes. Follow the
    instructions on the screen. When the installer finishes,
    press Enter.

8.  Reboot the system.

(%VER WFWNETWR.TXT v1.0d)

