3Com Corporation
Windows NT Network Driver Installation Notes


      WINDOWS NT AND MICROSOFT WINDOWS NETWORKING


This document describes how to configure the 3C589D card for
use with Windows 4.0 (Server or Workstation) and 
Microsoft Windows Networks without networking installed
and with networking installed.


NOTE: The following instructions assume that you have not 
      installed any other network adapter in the machine. 
      If you have been using a network connection on your
      computer, some of the following instructions may not
      apply or may produce different results.  You must
      have correct administrator privledges to install 
      drivers on  your PC. Refer to your MIS department 
      for instructions.

Before installing the network driver, you should know the
following:

      -Transport used in the Microsoft Windows Network
      -Name of the NT Server domain or Windows 95/WFW 3.11
       Workgroup to which you belong.

Also, for a successful installation, you will need:

      - Windows NT system installation files (either on
        hard disk, floppy diskettes, or CD)
      - 3C589D PC Card and the accompanying EtherDisk
        diskette
        

Windows NT 4 Installation without networking installed instructions:

1. Turn on the computer and log on.

2. Select the Control Panel icon.

3. From the Control Panel, select the Network icon.

4. When the system prompts:

    "Windows NT Networking is not installed. Install it now?"

      Click YES.

5. This opens the Windows NT network Setup Wizard. 

6. Place a checkmark in the Wired to the network box.

7. The next window prompts, "To have setup start searching 
   for a network adapter, click the Start Search button."

8. Click on the Select from List button.

9. Click on the Have Disk button.
10.Insert the EtherDisk diskette into drive A and click OK.


11.When the SELECT OEM OPTION window opens, select 
   3Com EtherLink III (3C589D) LAN PC Card, and click OK. 

   The Network Adapters list should now show the 3Com EtherLink III 
   (3C589D) LAN PC Card with a check mark on it. 

12.Click Next to continue.

13.In the Network Protocols list, place a check mark next to
   each network protocol that Windows NT will use. The TCP/IP
   transport will already be selected for use. If you have
   no specific reason to use TCP/IP, you may delete it now.

   In this dialog box, select the transport appropriate for
   the network client. Most Microsoft NT networks use the
   NWLink IPX/SPX Compatible Transport. If you are not sure,
   ask your system administrator or MIS department.

14.Click Next.
   The Network Services window appears.

15.Place a check mark in the box next to each s\desired service.

16.Click Next to continue.

   The next window states that Windwos NT is now ready to 
   install networking components that you selected and 
   others required by the system.

17.Click Next to install the selected components.

   The Setup prompt states that Setup needs to copy 
   some Windows NT files.

18.Enter the path to the Windows NT installation files 
   and click Continue.

   This opens a dialog box called Etherlink III PC Card.

19.Enter the settings for the PC card.  Select
   the appropriate settings for the card. In 
   most cases, the default settings will work, but if you
   are unsure about what settings to use, ask your system
   administrator or MIS department. 

20.Click Continue.

21.If prompted for the bus type, select PCMCIA. If prompted for
   the Bus number, select 0. Click OK.

22.Click OK to the next prompt.

23.If you selected TCP/IP and have a DHCP server, click Yes.
   If you do not have a DHCP server, click No, and get an IP 
   address from your system administrator and enter it.

   Windows NT files are copied to the hard drive.

24.If prompted for TCP/Ip information, enter it. and click OK.

25.The Network Setup Wizard shows a Bindings list.

26.Click Next to continue.

27.Click Next to allow Windows NT to start the network.


28.The next window is the Domain/Workgroup Settings window.
   Select the appropriate domain or workgroup name for
   Windows Networking and click Next. 

29.Click Finish to exit the Network Setup Wizard.

30.Remove the EtherDisk diskette from Drive A and 
   click Yes to restart the PC.


Windows NT 4 Installation with networking installed instructions:

1. Turn on the computer.

2. Select the Control Panel icon.

3. From the Control Panel, select the Network icon.

4. Select the Adapters tab.

5. Click on the Add button. 

6. Click on the Have Disk button.

7. Insert the EtherDisk diskette into drive A and click OK.

8. When the SELECT OEM OPTION window opens, select 
   3Com EtherLink III (3C589D) LAN PC Card, and click OK. 

9. Enter the settings for the PC card.  Select
   the appropriate settings for the card. In 
   most cases, the default settings will work, but if you
   are unsure about what settings to use, ask your system
   administrator or MIS department. 

10.Click OK.

21.If prompted for the bus type, select PCMCIA. If prompted for
   the Bus number, select 0. Click OK.

12.A setup message states that the parameters are not 
   verifiably correct - use them anyway? Click OK.

13.In the Network Protocols tab, place a check mark next to
   each network protocol that Windows NT will use. The TCP/IP
   transport will already be selected for use. If you have
   no specific reason to use TCP/IP, you may delete it now.

   In this dialog box, select the transport appropriate for
   the network client. Most Microsoft NT networks use the
   NWLink IPX/SPX Compatible Transport. If you are not sure,
   ask your system administrator or MIS department.

14.In the Network Services tab, place a check mark in the 
   box next to each s\desired service.

15.Click on the close button to save and exit the 
   Network setup area.

16.Remove the EtherDisk diskette from drive A and 
   restart the PC.

(%VER  WINNT.TXT v1.0c)

