                   NVIDIA GRAPHICS CARD SIZE PATCH
                   COMPATIBILITY and IRQ EOI CHECK

                             Version 3.0

                              06/04/2017

                        Copyright (C) 2015-2017
                          By Rudolph R. Loew
                             
                             

The nVidia Graphics Card Size Patch Package provides two solutions to the
problem of NVidia Graphics Cards that use memory banking to access Video RAM.
This causes a problem in most Windows 95, 98, 98SE or ME Systems when a 512MB
Graphics Card reports only 256MB of Memory Mapped I/O Space when configured.

One Patch changes the Video Driver Code to properly support the smaller
directly accessible Video Memory of the Card. The second Patch modifies the
Graphics Card BIOS to report the full size of the Video RAM when
configurated.

This Package provides a Test Program to determine if the Patches are
compatible with your Graphics Card and if they are needed before you purchase
the Patch Package.


REQUIREMENTS

DOS
Windows 95, 98, 98SE or ME.
6xxx or 7xxx Series nVidia Graphics Card.
nVidia Graphics Card Driver Version 82.69 (not included) (for Driver Patch)


CONTENTS

NVCHECK.EXE     Compatibility Check Program
TESTEOI.VXD     Interrupt EOI Bug Check VXD
NVCHECK.TXT     This File



COMPATIBILITY CHECK

Run this program from DOS or a DOS Box in Windows 95, 98, 98SE or ME.
It will list the Video Cards it finds along with a report.

"Invalid Size or Unrecognized Video Card" indicates that the Graphics Card or
it's configuration is not recognizeable by this Software.

"Size Changed During Initialization" indicates that the Graphics Card has
been improperly modified and is reporting different sizes at different times.

"Resources Correctly Allocated    No Patch Needed" indicates that the
Graphics Card does not use Memory Banking and does not need Patching.
If the Card does not work, it may need the Option ROM Disable Patch. Contact
Author for further information.

"Resource Over Allocated    Contact Author for Possible Fix" indicates that
the Graphics Card is Overallocating Space. No Patch is needed to make this
Card work but it uses more MMIO Space than is needed. A custom fix may be
possible.

"Resource Under Allocated    Driver Patch or BIOS Flash Needed" indicates
that the Graphics Card uses Memory banking and is compatible with these
Patches.

"Resource Under Allocated    Driver Patch Needed. BIOS Flash Uncertain"
indicates that the Graphics Card uses Memory banking and is compatible with
the Driver Patch. The BIOS Patch option may not work.


TESTEOI

There is a bug in some of the nVidia Drivers that causes them not to provide
a proper End Of Interrupt (EOI) signal before returning from their Interrupt
Routines.

When an EOI is not sent, the Interrupt remains active and no new Interrupts
for that IRQ can occur. This is likely to cause problems with any device
that shares that IRQ.

The Mouse Pointer is updated on the Graphics Interrupt. If the Interrupt
fails, the Mouse Pointer freezes until a timeout occurs. The timeouts occur
once every 15 Seconds so the Mouse Pointer will jump once every 15 seconds.

Particularly on newer motherboards, especially the 970 series, the Graphics
IRQ is shared with the SATA Hard Disk Controller and/or USB Controllers.
Interrupt failure can cause "Disk Write Error" BSODs and/or USB Failure or
crashes.

TESTEOI.VXD is a test VXD that can be used to determine if the Interrupt EOI
Bug is an issue with your System.

1. Install the file in your Windows\System Folder.
2. Add the following lne to the [386Enh] Section of your SYSTEM.INI File

DEVICE=TESTEOI.VXD

3. Reboot

The problem is very intermittent and may take many hours or even days to
appear. Keeping the CPU and Disk Drive busy seems to increase the frequency
of occurance. If you have been having problems with frequent Mouse freezes
then it should take less time.

When the Bug is detected, either a BSOD or Popup will appear telling you that
TESTEOI detected a missing EOI. Closing the Notice will let you continue but
part of your System will still be frozen.

If TESTEOI detects missing EOIs, then you will need my Interrupt Fixup VXD
Files. They are included in the NVSIZE Package, but can also be purchased
separately if your Graphics Card does not need the NVSIZE Patch.


LICENSE

This Test Software may be freely distributed provided that all Files are
included and unmodified.


ORDERING

The latest Version of this Test Program may be obtained at no cost from
http://rloew1.no-ip.com. If no longer available, please contact me at:
rloew@hotmail.com.

To purchase the nVidia Graphics Card Size Patch Package
Send $20 US + $1 S&H = $21 US per copy to:

To purchase only the Interrupt Fixup Package
Send $10 US + $1 S&H = $11 US per copy to:

Rudolph Loew
506 Bieling Rd.
Elmont, NY 11003
USA

Payment can be made as follows:

1. Cash
2. Money Order drawn on a US Bank or Post Office
3. Personal Check drawn on a US Bank (Delivery made after Check clears)
4. International Postal Money Order accepted by the US Postal Service
5. Paypal to rloew@hotmail.com
6. Western Union

Warning: International Checks or Money Orders, not described above, will not
be accepted and will not be returned without an additional $2 US handling
charge.

Other Payment terms and methods may be available through authorized
Distributors of this Product. The following is a list of authorized
Distributors at this time:

C. C. Anderson  http://slesarc.x10hosting.com

Delivery is by E-Mail. You MUST include the E-Mail address you want the
Software to be sent to.
Please type or print your E-Mail address clearly. Sending me an E-Mail when
you place an order will insure that I have your correct E-Mail address.

Prices and Terms may change at any time.

For additional information or help placing your order,
I can be reached in the following ways:

E-Mail: rloew@hotmail.com
Phone:  1-516-352-9078



QUESTIONS AND COMMENTS

Please direct any questions or comments about the Program or the
Documentation to me at rloew@hotmail.com or as described under ORDERING.
Please send any Bug Reports to rloew@hotmail.com.


MAILING LIST

If you would like to be notified about updates and/or fixes or other products
from Rudolph Loew, E-Mail me at rloew@hotmail.com and ask to be put on my
Mailing list. Your E-Mail address will not be given out nor will you receive
any unsolicited mail. You can unsubscribe at any time.
