	3Com (R) Corporation
3C90x 10 Mbps and 10/100 Mbps PCI NIC Family
     Windows NT Installation Information

-----------------------------------------------------------------
        
This file describes how to use EtherCD 5.4 
to do the following tasks on a PC running 
Windows NT 4.0

   --Install a 3Com PCI NIC using installation 
      diskettes (which can be created from 
      the EtherCD or downloaded from the 
      3Com World Wide Web site).

   --Remove the network driver and NIC 
     software.

   --Troubleshoot installation problems.

    
Installing a NIC Using Installation Diskettes
-----------------------------------------------------------------
Installation diskettes can be created from the
EtherCD (see the user guide, "Installing from 
Diskette") or downloaded from the 3Com 
World Wide Web site at:

http://www.3com.com

When you use installation diskettes, you install
the driver only.  If you want to install any other 
3Com NIC software, you must use the 
EtherCD.

To install a 3Com NIC in a PC running 
Windows NT 4.0 using installation diskettes:
 
1.  Install the NIC in the PC, as described in the 
     user guide.
     You do not have to run the EtherCD 
     preinstallation program.

2.  Start Windows NT.

3.  Double-click the My Computer icon, then 
     the Control Panel icon, and then the 
     Network icon.
     The Network window appears.

4.  Click the Adapters tab.

       Note:  If networking has not been installed 
       on your PC before, Windows NT asks you 
       if you want to install networking.  Click Yes. 
       See the Windows NT documentation for 
       instructions. 
           
       If you have previously installed a 
       Windows NT service pack, you need to 
       reinstall the service pack after the network 
       installation is complete to ensure that the 
       Windows NT network components are 
       updated to the level of the service pack.

5.  Click Add.  The Select Network Adapter 
     dialog box appears.

6.  Click Have Disk.  The Insert Disk 
      dialog box appears.  

7.  Insert EtherDisk diskette 1 in drive A, 
     and then click OK.  
 
     The OEM Option dialog box appears. 

8.  Make sure that the 3Com NIC is 
     highlighted, then click OK.

     The hour glass appears for a few 
     seconds, and then the Adapters tab 
     of the Network screen reappears. 
     The name of the installed NIC appears 
     in the list of network adapters.

9. Click Close.
    
    If the Microsoft TCP/IP Properties 
    screen appears, enter the requested 
    information for your network environment. 
    Refer to your system administrator or 
    the Windows NT documentation for
    assistance.
   
    If the Microsoft TCP/IP Properties screen 
    does not appear, the installation is complete.

10. Remove the EtherDisk from the floppy 
      drive, and then shut down and restart 
      the PC.
      

Updating the Network Driver and NIC Software
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you are using a version of EtherDisk software
that is older than the software on this EtherCD, 
follow the instructions below to properly 
update the driver and the Windows-based 
3Com NIC Diagnostics program.

   To update EtherDisk software in a PC running 
   Windows NT 4.0:

   The EtherCD installation and update 
   technology is significantly different then what 
   was available on previous EtherDisks.  For this
   reason, do not use the Update button on the 
   Adapter tab of the Network control panel.  
   Use one of the two methods below to update 
   the software.

   Preferred method:

   1.  Insert the EtherCD into the CD-ROM drive 
        after Windows NT starts.  This EtherCD 
        Welcome screen appears.

   2.  Click NIC Software, NIC Drivers and Diagnostics, 
         and then Update NIC driver.

   3.  Click Update Drivers and Diagnostic Program
        to update the network driver and NIC diagnostic 
        program, or click Update Drivers and remove
        Diagnostic Program to update the driver only.  

       The upgrade begins

   4.  The update utility asks 'Do you have to install 
        NIC drivers for any EtherLink PCI NICs'? 
        Click No.  
        The update utility posts a message box 
        that the update has successfully completed.  
        Click OK.

   5.  Click Exit on the EtherCD, and then restart 
         the computer.

   Alternate method:

       Do not use the Update button on the Adapter 
       tab of the Network control panel to update the 
       driver and NIC software.  
         
   1.  Double-click the My Computer icon, then 
        the Control Panel icon, and then the Network 
        icon.  The Network window appears.

   2.  Click the Adapters tab.  

   3.  Highlight the 3Com EtherLink NIC, and then 
        click the Remove button.  A warning message
        will appear.  Click the Yes button.

   4.  The NIC will disappear from the Adapter 
         window.  Click the Close button.  The bindings 
         review window will appear for a few seconds, 
         followed by the Network Settings Change 
         window requesting a reboot.  Click the Yes 
         button.

   5.  After the computer reboots, continue at the 
        Windows NT 4.0 First Time Install procedure 
        above.

     
                                                
Removing the Network Driver and NIC Software
-----------------------------------------------------------------

   Preferred Method:

   The procedure listed below is appropriate to 
   remove either the Windows diagnostic program 
   or to remove all software for a single 3Com NIC. 
   If you have more than one 3Com NIC installed
   and only want to remove one NIC, then use the 
   Alternate Method below.

   1.  After the system is booted and you have logged 
        into Windows NT, insert the EtherCD.  
 
   2.  Click NIC software, NIC Drivers and Diagnostics, 
         and then Installation Utilities.

   3.  At this point, you have the option to just remove 
        the NIC Windows Diagnostic or to remove 
        all the NIC support software.  Click Remove 
        Diagnostic to just remove the windows diagnostic 
        program.  Click Clean Up Failed installation 
        to remove both the drivers and Windows diagnostic 
        program.

   4.  The next screen explains briefly what is going 
         to happen.  Click Proceed.

   5.  If you chose 'Clean up failed installation", you 
        will see the bindings process for a few seconds, 
        followed by an Update utility message.  Click OK.  
        Another Update message appears. Click OK.

   6.  Exit the EtherCD.  

   7.  Reboot the computer to make the configuration 
        changes take effect.

   
   Alternate Method:

   To remove the NIC driver and software from a PC 
   running Windows NT 4.0:
 
   1.  Double-click the My Computer icon, then the 
        Control Panel icon, and then the Network icon.
       The Network window appears.

   2.  Click the Adapters tab.  

   3.  Highlight the name of the NIC in the 
        Network Adapters box, and then click the 
        Remove button.

   4.  Click Yes to confirm the removal.

   5.  Click Close to close the Network window.
       You are prompted to restart the PC.

       If you are physically removing the NIC from the PC, 
       click No.  Do not restart the PC until you shut 
       down the PC, turned the power off, and removed
       the NIC from the PC.

       If you are reinstalling the NIC software, click Yes 
       to restart the PC.

   

Troubleshooting 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If  a message appears, stating that Windows NT 
networking is not installed, either it has not been 
installed or a problem has occurred in changing 
the network settings.  If you have never installed 
networking on this system, proceed to the next 
section, "Installing Windows NT Networking for 
the First Time." Otherwise, follow the steps 
below to reinstall Windows NT networking.

    Reinstalling Windows NT Networking
    ---------------------------------------------------
    NOTE:  This procedure requires Windows NT 
    installation media.

    WARNING:  You will lose all network settings 
    when you perform this procedure.
    
    1.  Click No when asked if you wish to 
          install networking.
    
    2.  In the Network Settings window, select 
         each installed component one after the 
         other, and click Remove after each one 
         to uninstall all NICs and software listed 
         in the window.
    
    3.  Click OK after you have been removed 
          all items.
    
    4.  Reboot the PC when prompted.
    
    5.  When Windows NT restarts, go to the 
         Network Control Panel.  You are asked 
         again if you want to install networking.
    
    6.  In the Network Settings box, click Yes 
         to begin installing Windows NT networking.
    
    7.  Enter the location of the Windows NT 
         installation media.  For example, if your 
         CD-ROM drive is E:, type:
    
        E:\i386
    
    8.  In the NIC Card Detection window, 
         click Do Not Detect.  
    
    9.  In the Add Network NIC window, press and 
         hold the down arrow key until the option 
         <Other> Requires Disk from Manufacturer 
         appears.
    
    10. Insert the EtherCD in the CD ROM drive 
          or EtherDisk 1 diskette into drive A: and 
          press enter.
    
    11. In the Select OEM Option box, select the 
          3Com EtherLink NIC that you are installing.
    
    12. Click OK.
    
    13. Select the network protocols you will be 
           using on the network, and then click Continue.
    
        Consult your system administrator to find 
        out which protocols to select.
    
    14. Click OK in the Network Settings window 
           to accept the choices you have made.
     
    15. Provide additional information, as required, 
           during the network installation process.
    
        Your computer can automatically detect the 
        frame type if needed, but you must obtain 
        IP address and gateway information from your
        system administrator.
        
    16. Enter the workgroup name or the domain name 
           in the Domain/Workgroup Settings window and 
           click OK.
    
    17. When prompted, restart the PC to finish the 
           installation.

    18. If you have installed an NT service pack, you 
           will need to reinstall the service pack to make sure
           the Microsoft network components are upgraded 
           to the level of the service pack.
    
    
Installing Windows NT Networking for the 
First Time
-----------------------------------------------------------------
If you have never installed networking on this 
PC, begin at step 5 in "Reinstalling Windows NT 
Networking."
    

-----------------------------------------------------------------

3Com and EtherDisk are registered trademarks
of 3Com Corporation.

   (%VER WINNT.TXT - Installing the NDIS 3.0 
                 Driver for Windows NT V5.4.1)
