                       3Com (R) Corporation
                       3C90x PCI NIC Family
          Installing a NIC in a NetWare 16-Bit DOS ODI Client


This document describes how to install the 16-bit DOS ODI driver for a NetWare 
client running DOS or Windows 3.1.


Installing the Driver for One NIC
-------------------------------------
If only one NIC is installed, use the Novell install program to install both the
Novell client software and the 3Com DOS ODI driver.

1.  Download the Novell DOS and Windows 3.1 client from Novell's web site
    (www.novell.com\download).  Unpack the client software to installable media.

2.  Make sure that the NIC is installed in the PC and that it is 
    connected to the network.

3.  Boot the PC under DOS.

4.  Start the Novell install program.  Type INSTALL in the base directory of the
    Novell installation media.

5.  Press Enter to accept the License agreement.

6.  On the next screen, select the Novell client items that need to be installed. 
    Press the F10 key to continue

7.  On the next screen, select the 16-bit LAN drivers, then press F10.

8.  On the next screen, select USER SPECIFIED 16-BIT DRIVER, then press F10.

9.  On the pop-up box, enter the path to the media containing the 3Com 16-bit
    DOS ODI files.  For diskette, the path is A:\NWCLIENT. Press Enter to continue.

10. The next screen shows a list of 16-bit drivers.  The top highlighted item 
    is the 3Com 3C90X Family PCI NICs.  Press F10 to continue.

11. The next screen shows the frame type chosen for the 3Com driver.  If the 
    frame type on your network is not Ethernet 802.2, press enter, choose the
    correct frame type in the right hand pop-up box, and press F10.  Then press 
    F10 to advance.

12. The next screen shows the selections you have made. Make any final installation
    adjustments on this screen, then press F10 to continue.

13. The Novell client software is installed, then a final screen appears.  Press
    Enter to exit the install program.

14.  When the installation is complete, you are prompted to reboot the PC.
     If you installed using a diskette, remove the diskette and reboot the 
     PC. 


Installing the Driver for Multiple NICs
-------------------------------------------
NOTE: Use multiple NICs in a client PC only if you plan to run
      multiple protocols or connect to more than one network. For 
      information on multiple protocols, see the documentation provided
      with your operating system.

To install the driver and NICs for a client PC running DOS in a
Novell NetWare environment:

1.  Turn the PC off. Install the first NIC and connect it to the network.

2.  Turn the PC on and install the driver for the first NIC using
    the Novell install program (see the above section for instructions).  
    If you installed from diskette, be sure to remove the diskette 
    after the installation is finished.

3.  Turn the PC off again, install the second NIC, and connect it to 
    the network.

4.  Proceed as follows:

    -  If the PC is running a version of DOS that is earlier than 6.x, 
       boot it from a DOS diskette that does not contain drivers. 

    -  If the PC is running DOS version 6.x or later, turn it on and 
       press [F5] when DOS loads, after the "Starting MS-DOS..." message.  
       This prevents any drivers or memory managers from loading.

 5.  Insert the EtherCD in the CD ROM drive (or EtherDisk diskette 2 in the
     floppy drive), and type the following at the DOS prompt, where D:\ 
     represents the letter of your CD-ROM or floppy drive:

     D:\INSTALL [Enter]


 6.  On the main menu, select Configuration and Diagnostic Program and
     press [Enter].

 7.  In the list of NICs, find the slot number and bus number of the
     two NICs you just installed.  Write down the numbers in a place 
     where you can refer to them later, and press [Esc] to quit the program.

 8.  Access the C:\NOVELL\CLIENT32 directory and open the NET.CFG file.  Type: 
     
     EDIT NET.CFG [Enter]

 9.  Scroll through the file to the LINK DRIVER 3C90X section and locate
     the following lines:

     LINK DRIVER 3C90X
             FRAME ...

 10. In the file, proceed as follows:

     a.  Add a line underneath the FRAME line.  Enter BUS X, where X is the
         numeric value of the bus number from step 7 above.

     b.  Add a line underneath the BUS line.  Enter SLOT Y, where Y is the
         numeric value of the slot number from step 7 above.

     c.  Copy all four lines shown in step 9 and 10 a and b, and paste them under 
         the last of the four lines. Substitute the slot number and bus number of
         the second NIC in the lines you copied. If it is appropriate,
         you may want to change the ethernet frame type in the FRAME line.

Your file should now look like this (your slot, bus, and frame type 
         may be different):

         LINK DRIVER 3C90X
            FRAME Ethernet_802.2
            BUS 0
            SLOT 3

         LINK DRIVER 3C90X
            FRAME Ethernet_802.3
            BUS 1
            SLOT 5

         Note:  Make sure that the subheadings such as BUS, SLOT, 
                FRAME, etc., are indented.

 11. If you have installed more than two NICs, repeat step 10c for each
     additional installed NIC.

 12. When you are done, reboot the PC.
  

            (%VER NWDOSODI.TXT - NetWare DOS ODI Client V5.4.0)
