3Com Corporation
Network Drivers Installation Notes
OS/2 Warp Connectivity to NetWare Servers for the 3C589D LAN PC Card

1.  Install the OS/2 Warp operating system on the PC.

2.  Download the latest version of the Novell NetWare Requester from Novell.

3.  Insert the EtherDisk v5.3 in the A: drive, change to the A:\NWCLIENT
    directory, and copy the driver 3C589.SYS to the root (A:\) of the 
    EtherDisk.  If this is not done the OS/2 ODI driver will not be copied
    to the hard drive during the ensuing installation procedures.

4.  Boot OS/2 Warp.

5.  Install the PCMCIA Card and Socket Services as follows.
        a.  From the desktop double-click on "OS/2 System".
        b.  Double-click on "System Setup".
        c.  Double-click on "Selective Install".
        d.  Click on the "PCMCIA Support" icon.
        e.  Highlight the model of laptop OS/2 Warp is currently being 
            installed on.
        f.  Click on OK.
        g.  Click on OK again to exit and save the System Configuration.

Note:  If the laptop is not listed under "Select PCMCIA system" then select
a similar model from the same manufacturer.  This selection is very 
important as it defines which PCMCIA Socket driver is installed in the 
CONFIG.SYS file.  If the wrong socket driver is installed, OS/2 Warp will
fail to communicate properly to PCMCIA adapters.  Call the laptop
manufacturer for the proper choice should problems be encountered after the 
completion of this install.

6.  Insert the "WSOS2_1" NetWare Requester diskette in the A: drive.

7.  Go to the Drives icon and double-click on "Drive A".

8.  Double-click on the "INSTALL.EXE" icon.

9.  Select "Installation" from the file bar and click on "Requester on
    workstation...".

10. Enter the target directory to install the drivers in.  
    The default is C:\NETWARE.  Click the OK button to continue.

11. Select "Edit CONFIG.SYS and Copy All Files...".  Click the OK button
    to continue.

12. The "Step 1 - Choose the ODI LAN Driver" box should appear.  In the
    "Choose from the list or type in the driver name:" box, enter the
     driver name 3C589.SYS.  Click the Continue button.

13. Select the appropriate option for "IPX Support for DOS and Windows:"
    and then click Continue.

14. Select any Optional Protocols needed and click on Save.

15. Click OK to save to the C:\CONFIG.SYS file.

16. Click on "Copy" to copy the requester files to the C:\NETWARE directory.

17. Swap diskettes as requested.

18. At the "Copy ODI LAN Driver Files" dialogue box the default ODI driver
    should be shown as 3C589.SYS.  Select the bullet for "Copy only the
    default driver" and click OK.

19. When prompted for a diskette containing third party ODI drivers, insert
    the EtherDisk, which has the driver 3C589.SYS located in the root
    directory, in drive A: and click OK.

20. Continue disk swapping as requested.

21. A message screen will now appear indicating that the "Installation is
    complete".  Continue on to now configure this workstation.

22. Select "Configuration" from the file bar and click on "This
    workstation...".

23. Enter the default NET.CFG location of C:\NET.CFG and click on the Edit
    button.

24. Type the following in the box "Current NET.CFG File Contents:"

        link driver 3c589
            frame ethernet_802.2

Note:  The word "link" must start in column 1, and "frame" must be indented
using the space bar.  Specify the same frame type that is running on the
NetWare server to be logged into, otherwise login will be unsuccessful.

25. Click the "Save" button to finish.

26. NetWare Client for OS/2 is now installed.  Select "Close" from the menu
    in the top-left corner of the window to exit the installation program.

27. Shut down OS/2 Warp and reboot the machine for the changes to take 
    effect.

  
      (%VER NWOS2ODI.TXT - NetWare OS/2 ODI Client Installation V1.0b)
    
