3Com Corporation
Network Drivers Installation Notes


          WINDOWS FOR WORKGROUPS v3.11 AND
            MICROSOFT WINDOWS NETWORKING


This document describes how to configure the LAN PC card
for use with Windows for Workgroups v3.11 and Microsoft 
Windows Networking. These procedures are also described in 
the EtherLink III LAN PC Card User Guide.

This file also describes how to install the 3C589D PC Card 
under WFW 3.11 to allow simultaneous 
NetWare and Microsoft Server Connectivity.

If you are going to install the Novell NetWare client in 
addition to the Microsoft Windows networking client, you must 
install the Novell NetWare client first.

Microsoft Windows for Workgroups (WFW) v3.11 does not include
internal support for the Plug and Play standard.  Since NDIS 
3.1 (32 BIT) Drivers operate only in Plug and Play environments,
you cannot operate the LAN PC card with the included 32-bit
driver. To ensure support for Windows for Workgroups v3.11, 
3Com includes a 16-bit NDIS 2.0 driver. This driver offers full
support for Windows for Workgroups, but may affect system 
performance. To resolve this deficiency with Windows for
Workgroups 3.11, you may want to upgrade your operating system
to Windows 95.  Check with your MIS department or system 
manager before doing this.

NOTE: The following instructions assume you have not installed
      any other network adapter in the machine. If networking 
      has already been installed, some of the instructions will
      not apply or appear accurate. Consult with your MIS 
      department for further instructions.

Before installing the network driver, you should gather the
following information and have it handy for supplying 
information to the setup dialog boxes:

      - Transport used in the Microsoft Windows Network 
        (typically IPX/SPX)
      - The Frame type used by the Microsoft Windows Network
        (typically 802.3)
      - Name of the NT Server domain or Windows 95/WFW 3.11
        Workgroup to which you belong.
      - The latest versions of the Card and Socket Services
        installed on your machine. Check with your PC
        manufacturer if you are not sure.

You will need to have the following software components
accessible and ready to use:

      - Windows for Workgroups v3.11 installation files (either
        on hard disk, floppy diskettes, or CD)
      - The EtherDisk diskette that came with your LAN PC
        card

Installing a New Client

1.  From Windows, open the Network group. Double click on 
    the Network Setup icon to open the Network Setup dialog
    box. If networking has not been installed, you will see 
    nothing in the network drivers window. If it looks like
    networking has been installed, ignore this procedure and
    use Installing an Additional Client, below.

2.  Click on the Networks icon to open the Networks dialog 
    box. At the left edge of the dialog box, you will see 
    three radio buttons, describing the type of network support
    that Windows offers.  If you see the name of another
    network client listed on the bottom of this window, see
    Installing an Additional Client, below.

3.  Select Install Microsoft Windows Network and click OK.

4.  Click Drivers to open the Network Drivers dialog box.

5.  Click Add Adapter to display a list of possible choices for
    adapter. Select Unlisted or Updated Network Adapter and
    click OK.

6.  At the Install Driver prompt, insert the EtherDisk in the
    floppy drive and click OK. Select the 3Com 3C589D EtherLink
    III LAN PC Card and click OK.  You will see the
    following added to the list of network drivers:

      3Com EtherLink III LAN PC Card adapter [NDIS2]

7.  Click CLOSE. When the Network Setup Dialog box reopens, it
    will show the 3C589D card in the Network Drivers window.
    Click OK.

8.  Supply the information requested in the Microsoft Windows
    Network Names dialog box. Your MIS department or network
    manager should be able to supply the information you need.
    When the information is complete, click OK. 

9.  The installer will request various disks for installation.
    When finished, you will be asked to reboot the system. You
    will have network access when the system restarts. Refer
    to your Windows Manual for instructions on using Microsoft
    Windows Networking. 


Installing an Additional Client

If there is NetWare (ODI) or other client already installed on
your system, follow this procedure:

1.  From Windows, open the Network group. Double click on the
    Network Setup icon to open the Network Setup dialog box. 

2.  Write down the name of the client listed on the last line of
    the Networks dialog box. (You will need this name later.)

3.  Click Install Microsoft Windows Network. At the bottom of
    the small window under the selection that you just made,
    you will see other selections. Click Other.

4.  Find the name of the client you noted in Step 2, select it,
    and click OK. 

5.  Click Drivers to open the Network Drivers dialog box.

6.  Click Add Adapter to display a list of possible choices for
    adapter. Select Unlisted or Updated Network Adapter and 
    click OK.

7.  At the Install Driver prompt, insert the EtherDisk in the
    floppy drive and click OK. Select the 3Com 3C589D EtherLink
    III LAN PC Card and click OK.  You will see the
    following added to the list of network drivers:

    3Com 3C589D EtherLink III LAN PC Card adapter [NDIS2]

8.  Click CLOSE. When the Network Setup Dialog box reopens,
    it will show the 3C589D card in the Network Drivers window.
    Click OK.

9.  A Windows Setup dialogue box will open to alert you to the
    presence of files for the existing client. Select No if you
    want to maintain your access to the other network. Windows
    may ask this question several times, depending on how many
    references to the previous network it finds. Select No
    each time.

10. The installer will request various disks for installation.
    When finished, you will be asked to reboot the system. You
    will have network access when the system restarts. Refer to
    your Windows Manual for instructions on using Microsoft
    Windows Networking. 


3C589D Installation under WFW 3.11 to Allow Simultaneous 
NetWare and Microsoft Server Connectivity

1.  Install the 3C589D PC Card and connect it to the network 
as described in Chapter 2.

2.  Boot the PC to DOS without loading Windows 
for Workgroups.

3.  Place the Novell VLM client disk #1 in the floppy 
drive and type A:INSTALL [Enter].

4.  Verify that the information on each line is correct.

5.  In the Driver Selection box, press [Enter] to display 
the list of supported drivers.

6.  At the bottom of the list, select "Other Drivers" 
and press [Enter].

7.  When prompted for a driver disk, put the EtherDisk 
in the floppy drive and hit [Enter].

8.  Select "3Com EtherLink III LAN PC Card Adapter" 
from the displayed list and press [Enter].

9.  Select the frame type by pressing [Enter] and 
choosing the appropriate type from the list.

10.  After the selection is made, press [Enter] again.

11.  Press [F10] to return to the main installation screen.

12.  To install the driver, select line 6 from this screen 
and press [Enter].  Follow the instructions.

13.  When the installer finishes, press [Enter].

14.  Reboot the system and verify the NetWare 
server can be logged into.

15.  Load Windows for Workgroups.

16.  Double-click on the "Network" program 
group from the desktop.

17.  Double-click on "Network Setup".

18.  Click on the "Networks" button.

19. Select the second bullet "Install Microsoft 
Windows Network", and then click OK.

20.  Click on the "Drivers" button.

21.  Click on "Add Adapter".

22.  Select "Unlisted or Updated Network Adapter" 
and click OK.

23.  Insert the EtherDisk in the A: drive, and then 
click OK for the path A:\.

24.  Click OK for the Network Adapter 
"3Com 3C589 EtherLink III PC Card".

25.  On the Network Drivers screen, highlight 
"3Com 3C589 EtherLink III PC Card" and click "Setup...".

26.  In the "Driver Type" box, click on the down arrow, 
select "ODI Driver", and click OK.

27.  The line 3Com 3C589 EtherLink III PC Card 
should now show "[ODI/NDIS3]" at the end of it.  
Additionally, "IPX/SPX Compatible Transport 
with NetBIOS" should be present underneath this line.

28.  On the Network Drivers screen, click Cancel.

29.  Click OK to save these settings.

30.  Feed diskettes as prompted and then 
reboot the PC.

(%VER WFWNDIS2.TXT v1.0b)
 
 
