                   NOVELL TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                   
The software files ("SOFTWARE") enclosed in this self extracting file ("FILE") are protected by the copyright laws of the United States and international copyright treaties. You may, without charge, reproduce and distribute, within your organization only, copies of this FILE, and use copies of the SOFTWARE solely for their intended purpose of supporting legally obtained, commercially available Novell operating system software, provided: 1) you do not receive any direct payment, commercial benefit, or other consideration for the reproduction, distribution or use of the SOFTWARE or FILE, or distribute the FILE as part of or in combination with any other software or hardware product without the prior written consent of Novell, Inc.; and, 2) you do not change or omit any proprietary rights notices appearing on or in the SOFTWARE or FILE.  If you are a reseller of Novell products, you may, subject to the forgoing, distribute the FILE outside your organization solely for maintenance and upgrade of SOFTWARE.

You will take all reasonable steps to protect the SOFTWARE and the FILE from unauthorized copying or use.  The source code of the SOFTWARE represents and embodies trade secrets of Novell and/or its licensors.  The source code and embodied trade secrets are not licensed to you and any modification, addition, or deletion is strictly prohibited.  You shall not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the SOFTWARE.   If the SOFTWARE is used within a country of the European Community, nothing  in this Agreement shall be construed as restricting any rights available  under the EC Council Directive 14 May 1991 on the legal protection of  computer programs.

Nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring by implication, estoppel or otherwise any license or right under any patent or trademark of Novell or any third party.  Except as expressly provided above, nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring any license of right under any Novell copyright.

The rights and obligations hereunder will not be governed by  the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the  application of which is expressly excluded. Rather, the parties expressly agree that  such rights and obligations will instead be governed by the laws of the State of  Utah excluding the application of its conflicts of law rules.

EXCEPT AS RESTRICTED BY LAW, THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, TITLE OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so the above exclusion may not apply to you.

U.S. Export Laws and Regulations.  Because this Novell product was developed in the United States of America, U.S. export laws and regulations apply to its use.  This product may not be downloaded, exported or redistributed in any form by residents or nationals of Cuba, Iran, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, or Syria.  Licensee may not export or transfer, whether directly or indirectly, this product, or any portion thereof, or any system containing this product or portion thereof, to anyone outside the United States, without first complying strictly and fully with all export controls that may be imposed on the product by the United States Government (as noted in the Export Administration Regulations) or any country or organization of nations within whose jurisdiction the licensee resides or does business.

By downloading this software product you are acknowledging that you are not restricted from receiving U.S. goods and agree to comply with all applicable U.S. export laws and import laws in the country in which you reside.